Address                                KAMAL RAJ M M                                   Contact

Senior Python Developer | Artificial Intelligence SME | AI Research | Data Analytics
OVERVIEW:
Innovative and detail oriented Senior Python Consultant eager to implement the in-depth
knowledge in Data Analysis with Python, NLP libraries like Pytorch, Transformers, LLM
Frameworks like Langchain, DSPy along with Cloud Deployments in AWS & GCP.

WHY HIRE ME:
With a proven track record in AI, Python and Linux, I'm equipped to deliver cutting-edge
solutions that will drive your business forward. My expertise in core Python modules, NLP,
and Gen AI framework, combined with my deep understanding of AI technologies and Linux
systems, will position me as a valuable asset to your team.

SKILLS:
   1) Programming Language: Python
   2) Frameworks & Tools: Pytorch, Transformers, Langchain, Django & Streamlit
   3) Data Analysis: data cleaning & statistical analysis with Pandas, NumPy, SKlearn
   4) Relational DBs : Postgres & SQLite3
   5) VCS : Git
   6) Generative AI Technologies: Open Source & Paid LLMs(Llama3, OpenAI, Gemini, AWS
      Sagemaker)
   7) AI-Techniques: Fine-Tuning and Instruction tuning with Custom Data using Pytorch,
      Transformers, TRL
   8) Data Processing: Experience with data processing libraries like Pandas, NumPy
   9) Administration on Linux: Phoenix AI Observability Server & Matrix Comm Server .
   10) Vector Embedding & storing: Model Loading & deployment
   11) Cloud Platforms: AWS EC2, Hugging Face Spaces, Streamlit
   12) Operating System: Ubuntu Linux, Windows
   13) Technical Writing: Familiar with Asciidoctor and markdown format

RESPONSIBILITIES:
   1) Translate the business questions into a structured automation process starting with
      data collection, cleaning, conducting EDA and statistical analysis.
   2) Implementing data pipelines with python & create dashboards for stakeholders
   3) Providing actionable, detail oriented consultation for real world problems with
      Generative AI platforms like OpenAI, HuggingFace, Groq and AWS Sage maker.
   4) Developing AI based solutions that target the Business problems, automation
      challenges and help in reducing cost, increase efficiency.
   5) Write RAG pipelines from scratch in Python, that involve LLM framework like
      Langchain, vector store like faiss, weaviate and GenAI models API endpoints.
   6) Develop Django Backend with RestAPI endpoints, by integrating with OpenAI, Groq
      and HuggingFace LLM API endpoints.
   7) Research open source Bridges and Python SDKs to integration Gen AI model in to
      Matrix server, and create services
   8) Research on Open Telemetry and Open Inference for Gen AI API endpoint, and
      administer Phoenix Server on Ubuntu 20.04 machines
   9) Write technical write up explaining the problem at hand, and possible technical
      solutions, and the steps to achieve the results


PROJECTS WITH AI & PYTHON WITH LINUX:
   1) GenAI Youtube Comment Automation Development: Aug 2022 - Mar 2023
      Overview: Develop Django Backend that integrates with Youtube API, Open AI
      API that extracts the recent comment made under the Youtube Videos, and
      provide the reply from the AI backed by the LLM.
      Tech: Langchain, Django, OpenAI SDK, Ngrok
      Outcome: Provided 3 comment recommendations for every Comment received in the
      youtube video, and increased the comment reply rate to 200 comments per hour.

   2) Generative AI Ecosystem & Python Integration Training: Sep'23 ~ Present
      Overview: Trained three experienced python developers to transition into the field of
      Generative AI,
      Tech: Langchain, Pytorch, Transformers, HuggingFace, VectorDBs & Core Python
      Outcome: Successfully transition the 3 developers into GenAI work profiles in their
      current organization.

   3) Upgrading and Testing the Gen AI ChatBot with RAG Pipeline: Sep2023~Nov2023
      Overview: Upgrade the CRUD Endpoints of the Django backend integrated with
      OpenAI with help of Langchain
      Tech: Langchain, Django, OpenAI SDK
      Outcome: Rewrote the CRUD endpoints that provides the reply to the end users, and
      successfully got it approved by the customer stakeholders

   4) Integration DSPy & Phoenix Server on Ubuntu 20.04 for AI Observability:
      July2024~Aug2024
      Overview: Develop F1 metric score on DSPy framework & integrate Phoenix Server
      for tracing the OpenAI API calls. Reduced the debugging time of DSPy modules.
      Optimized the cost of API calls to OpenAI with the help of Phoenix Server
      Tech: Ubuntu, Dspy, OpenAI SDK, Phoenix Server
      Outcome: Developed the logic for F1 metric in DSPy framework. Researched the
      Phoenix and administered phoenix server with backend Postgres Database.

EXPERIENCE:

Senior Python Developer | AI Engineer | Self-employed | 2022 - Present | 2+ yrs
   1) Innovative and detail oriented Generative AI Engineer eager to implement the
       in-depth knowledge in Large Language Models, NLP libraries like Pytorch,
       Transformers, LLM Frameworks like Langchain, DSPy along with Cloud Deployments
       in AWS & Google.
   2) Experienced in providing Top class detail oriented consultation for real world
       problems with Generative AI platforms like OpenAI, HuggingFace, Groq and AWS
       Sagemaker.
   3) Skilled at developing AI based solutions that solves the Business problems,
      automation challenges and help in reducing cost, increase efficiency.
   4) Collaborate with a dynamic team of experts and contribute to the project’s
      overarching goal of building AI systems that people can trust
   5) Optimize and scale the AI models by profiling the performance and efficiency, and
      educating the internal teams.


EARLIER INDUSTRY EXPERIENCE: 14+ YRS
   1) Org1 · Full-time | Manager | Mar 2014 - Nov 2022 | 8 yrs 9 mos
   2) Sales Executive | Org2 | 2010 - 2014 | 4 yrs
   3) Org3 - India | Thermal Engineer| 2008 - 2010 | 2 yrs


EDUCATION:
   1) Completed BE Mechanical engineering from College affiliated with Anna University in
      2007.
   2) Achieved consistent department topper and graduated with 87%.
   3) Scored 90.5% in class XII at Hr. Sec Matriculation School in 2003.
   4) Scored 77.2% in class X at Matriculation School in 2001.
